README.md, before:

# ghp - Your AI GitHub Pal 🤖

`ghp` is a command-line interface (CLI) tool designed to streamline your Git and GitHub workflow by leveraging the power of AI. It acts as a wrapper around common `git` and `gh` commands, automatically generating commit messages and pull request descriptions based on your code changes.

Stop agonizing over the perfect commit message or PR description – let your AI pal handle the first draft!

## Features ✨

*   **AI-Powered Commit Messages:** Run `ghp commit` to automatically generate a conventional commit message based on your staged changes.
*   **AI-Powered PR Descriptions:** Run `ghp pr new` to create a new draft pull request with a title and description generated from the difference between your current branch and the base branch. It can even use your existing `.github/pull_request_template.md`!
*   **Interactive Confirmation:** Never commit or open a PR blindly. `ghp` always shows you the AI-generated content and asks for your confirmation before proceeding.
*   **Seamless Integration:** Uses your existing `git` and `gh` CLI setup.
*   **Configurable:** Options to specify base branches, control draft PR status, and open PRs in the browser.

## Installation 📦

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/your-username/ghp.git # Replace with your repo URL
cd ghp

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Build the project
npm run build

# Link the CLI globally (optional but recommended for ease of use)
npm link
```

Now you can run `ghp` from any directory.

## Setup 🛠️

1.  **OpenAI API Key:** `ghp` uses OpenAI (specifically, `gpt-4o-mini` by default) to generate text. You need an OpenAI API key.
    *   Create a file named `.env` in the root of the `ghp` project directory.
    *   Add your API key to the `.env` file:
        ```
        OPENAI_API_KEY=your_openai_api_key_here
        ```
    *   *Note:* The `.env` file is included in `.gitignore` to prevent accidental key exposure.

2.  **GitHub CLI (`gh`):** The `ghp pr new` command relies on the official GitHub CLI (`gh`) being installed and authenticated.
    *   Install `gh` by following the instructions [here](https://github.com/cli/cli#installation).
    *   Authenticate with your GitHub account by running `gh auth login`.

## Usage 🚀

Make sure you are inside a Git repository directory.

### Generating Commit Messages

1.  Stage the changes you want to commit (`git add ...`).
2.  Run the command:
    ```bash
    ghp commit
    ```
3.  `ghp` will show the staged diff (if any) and then display the AI-generated commit message.
4.  You will be prompted to confirm (Y/n) if you want to use the generated message.
5.  If confirmed, `ghp` will execute `git commit` with the message.

### Creating Pull Requests

1.  Ensure your current feature branch has been pushed to GitHub (`git push -u origin your-branch-name`).
2.  Run the command:
    ```bash
    ghp pr new
    ```
3.  `ghp` will:
    *   Determine your current branch and the base branch (defaults to `main`).
    *   Fetch the diff between your branch and the base branch.
    *   Look for a `.github/pull_request_template.md` file.
    *   Generate a PR title and description using AI based on the diff and template (if found).
    *   Display the generated title and description.
4.  You will be prompted to confirm (Y/n) if you want to create the PR with this content.
5.  If confirmed, `ghp` will execute `gh pr create --draft ...` (draft by default).

#### `pr new` Options:

*   `--base <branch>`: Specify a different base branch (e.g., `ghp pr new --base develop`).
*   `--no-draft`: Create the PR as ready for review instead of a draft.
*   `--web`: Open the newly created PR in your web browser.

**Example:**

```bash
# Create a non-draft PR against the 'develop' branch and open it in the browser
ghp pr new --base develop --no-draft --web
```

## How it Works 🤔

1.  **Diffing:** Uses `git diff` commands via `execa` to get staged changes (`commit`) or changes relative to a base branch (`pr new`).
2.  **AI Generation:** Sends the diff (and PR template content, if applicable) to the OpenAI API using the `openai` library, with prompts designed to generate conventional commits or PR content.
3.  **Interaction:** Uses `inquirer` to display generated content and ask for user confirmation.
4.  **Execution:** If confirmed, runs the corresponding `git commit` or `gh pr create` command using `execa`.

## Contributing 🤝

Contributions are welcome! Feel free to open issues or submit pull requests.

## License 📄

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the `LICENSE` file for details (if one exists) or check `package.json`.

Commit message:

refactor: rename project from ghp to aigh

README.md, after:

# aigh - Your AI GitHub Pal 🤖

`aigh` is a command-line interface (CLI) tool designed to streamline your Git and GitHub workflow by leveraging the power of AI. It acts as a wrapper around common `git` and `gh` commands, automatically generating commit messages and pull request descriptions based on your code changes.

Stop agonizing over the perfect commit message or PR description – let your AI pal handle the first draft!

## Features ✨

*   **AI-Powered Commit Messages:** Run `aigh commit` to automatically generate a conventional commit message based on your staged changes.
*   **AI-Powered PR Descriptions:** Run `aigh pr new` to create a new draft pull request with a title and description generated from the difference between your current branch and the base branch. It can even use your existing `.github/pull_request_template.md`!
*   **Interactive Confirmation:** Never commit or open a PR blindly. `aigh` always shows you the AI-generated content and asks for your confirmation before proceeding.
*   **Seamless Integration:** Uses your existing `git` and `gh` CLI setup.
*   **Configurable:** Options to specify base branches, control draft PR status, and open PRs in the browser.

## Installation 📦

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/your-username/ghp.git # Replace with your repo URL
cd aigh # Assuming you renamed the cloned directory

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Build the project
npm run build

# Link the CLI globally (optional but recommended for ease of use)
npm link
```

Now you can run `aigh` from any directory.

## Setup 🛠️

1.  **API Keys:** `aigh` uses AI to generate text. You need an API key for your chosen provider (OpenAI or Google Gemini).
    *   Configure your keys using `aigh config set <key> <value>`. See `aigh config get` for available keys.
    *   Alternatively, set environment variables (`OPENAI_API_KEY` or `GOOGLE_API_KEY`).
    *   Keys set via `aigh config` are stored in `~/.aigh/config.json`.

2.  **GitHub CLI (`gh`):** The `aigh pr new` command relies on the official GitHub CLI (`gh`) being installed and authenticated.
    *   Install `gh` by following the instructions [here](https://github.com/cli/cli#installation).
    *   Authenticate with your GitHub account by running `gh auth login`.

## Usage 🚀

Make sure you are inside a Git repository directory.

### Generating Commit Messages

1.  Stage the changes you want to commit (`git add ...`).
2.  Run the command:
    ```bash
    aigh commit
    ```
3.  `aigh` will show the staged diff (if any) and then display the AI-generated commit message.
4.  You will be prompted to confirm (Y/n) if you want to use the generated message.
5.  If confirmed, `aigh` will execute `git commit` with the message.

### Creating Pull Requests

1.  Ensure your current feature branch has been pushed to GitHub (`git push -u origin your-branch-name`).
2.  Run the command:
    ```bash
    aigh pr new
    ```
3.  `aigh` will:
    *   Determine your current branch and the base branch (defaults to `main`).
    *   Fetch the diff between your branch and the base branch.
    *   Look for a `.github/pull_request_template.md` file.
    *   Generate a PR title and description using AI based on the diff and template (if found).
    *   Display the generated title and description.
4.  You will be prompted to confirm (Y/n) if you want to create the PR with this content.
5.  If confirmed, `aigh` will execute `gh pr create --draft ...` (draft by default).

#### `pr new` Options:

*   `--base <branch>`: Specify a different base branch (e.g., `aigh pr new --base develop`).
*   `--no-draft`: Create the PR as ready for review instead of a draft.
*   `--web`: Open the newly created PR in your web browser.

**Example:**

```bash
# Create a non-draft PR against the 'develop' branch and open it in the browser
aigh pr new --base develop --no-draft --web
```

## How it Works 🤔

1.  **Diffing:** Uses `git diff` commands via `execa` to get staged changes (`commit`) or changes relative to a base branch (`pr new`).
2.  **AI Generation:** Sends the diff (and PR template content, if applicable) to the configured AI API (OpenAI or Gemini) using their respective libraries, with prompts designed to generate conventional commits or PR content.
3.  **Interaction:** Uses `inquirer` to display generated content and ask for user confirmation.
4.  **Execution:** If confirmed, runs the corresponding `git commit` or `gh pr create` command using `execa`.

## Contributing 🤝

Contributions are welcome! Feel free to open issues or submit pull requests.

## License 📄

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the `LICENSE` file for details (if one exists) or check `package.json`.
